# Fuseki : Data Services

Fuseki provides a number of "data services" - each data service is an RDF datasets
and a configurable set of endpoints for various operations such as SPARQL query,
SPARQL update and file upload.

URI scheme.
  Datasets and services
  Admin

----------------------------

> _@@ Just rough notes : out-of-date and inconsistent_

## Naming

The naming style for application operations is:

   / name / endpoint ? parameters

where `name` is

and `endpoint` is


In the administration operations, the name is used after the 

   /

e.g. 

In administration operations, the dataset name is appended to the operation.  For
example, `http://host:port/$/datasets/ds` accesses the assembler description
of the dataset.

There is also an internal name, generated by the server which is a UUID.
This UUID is never reused even if the dataset name is reused after the
first use is deleted.

## The Dataset Lifecycle

The lifecycle of a dataset 

* Active 
* Offline

An *active* dataset is able to process applications requests. 

An *offline* dataset is one whose configuration is know to the server but is currently not controlled by the server.

When offline, the dataset is unavailable for application requests but the name remains in-use and the configuration information retained.  When made active again, the dataset and it's associated services are recreated.  When offline, Fuseki does not retain any access to the data so the dataset can be changed with tools outside of Fuseki.  When active, Fuseki assumes it has full control of a dataset (in particular TDB datasets can not be updated by other applications while active).

When Fuseki is not running, all datasets can be considered offline even if they were not explicitly made so prior to shutdown of the server.


(If a dataset uses in-memory storage, changes to its state are lost even though it is recreated from its; configuration when the server restarts.)


## Links

